I have interests in Machine Learning especially in Deep Learning and also working at Google. When you said that you were interviewed by Google because you have a blog on Medium, maybe soon I may start my Medium blog.

If I may ask, do you have a couple of tips on how to start writing a blog on Medium? Again, thank you for accepting my request, and have a great day.

— An inspired Data Scientist

In 2019, as a newbie, I started writing blogs. I used to be a cloud system software engineer with no experience in Machine Learning and Data Science. But I started blogging anyway to learn by reading and sharing my knowledge.

After 3 years of blogging, I felt that writing has given me passive income, better communication soft skills, and valuable career opportunities at Google.

Since then, I also have received a great deal of questions on how to start a blog and build expertise.

Overall, there are five tips I would love to share with you:

Communicate: Know your audience
Deliver: Educate and inspire
Cadence: Pace yourself
Share: Identify channels to distribute contents
Celebrate: Generate skills, brand and income
Communicate: Know your audience
Your audience is the key reason why you write.

Every writing and communication requires an audience. How it works from one to the others depends on who the audiences are.

This means an overly technical piece with so many equations and formulas may not be palatable to some newcomers to the field. This is why an expert identifies important concepts with different complexity for various audiences based on their level of expertise.

Hence it is crucial to know who you are writing for and create your success metrics from there.

In general, these are the key audiences for your writing:

Yourself: To share learning journeys, brainstorm ideas and future impactful projects.
Team members/Colleagues: To identify collaboration points, escalations, and system specific impacts. One good example of writing for colleagues is design docs, a conceptual lighthouse to guide your data projects.
Aspiring/Professional Data Practitioners: To teach tips and tricks relevant to help aspiring data practitioners. For example, this blog is created to guide you to write data science blogs.
In my case, my biggest audience for the Data Science blog is young adults from age 25–35 who courageously took a baby step to dabble in the world of data science and build up various expertise of Data Science and Tech.

When I was 25, I faced a similar issue. So I created this blog to help people with similar needs to navigate Data Science Careers.

Likewise, you should know who you are building with and the values you are providing to build your blog.

Deliver: Educate and Inspire
Education paves the possibilities while inspiration drives the impact

In general, there are two goals of writing:

Educate: Share knowledge to create possibilities, avoid pitfalls, and reduce time sinks.
Inspire: Share anecdotes and stories to incite the audience to act.
Remember that your readers have limited time. They come to your articles for the values you can bring to them.

For example, I gave my readers simple directions to create a Google Data Studio dashboard within 10 minutes. In my analytics toolbox, I presented code snippets for readers to quickstart their data science projects. I also created a data driven story about employee retention which is meant to educate and inspire.

This means you are successful if you could save your readers’ time from your instructions (education) while inciting actions into real results (inspiration).

Cadence: Pace yourself
Decide how often do you want to deliver

Decide how frequently you want to release your blogs and articles. This could be monthly, biweekly, weekly, and even daily.

I have seen many beginner writers which release articles daily and weekly but stop releasing after a while. For me, I write weekly but frequently dial back to monthly due to other life priorities. What’s important is not how many times you write, but how you are going to follow through a pipeline or schedule to write.

For example, my writing pipeline is as following:

Brainstorming: To think about topics which might be useful for my audience and are related to my case. For example, I wrote about tmux when I used tmux and think this will help others boost their productivity.
Free Writing: I wrote all points I know about a certain topic and structured them without any prior criticism or much thoughts. The main purpose is to just let your train of thoughts run wild without any judgment.
Reinforce: I further added more ideas to my writing which adds further support to my points.
Review: I asked one or two of my friends to look into it and gave me feedback. This helped me discover my blind spot and fix it.
Proofread: I fixed critical grammar errors to increase readability.
Launch: I launched it on either Sat or Mon to complete the pipeline while having a break the next day. Recently, I have been posting my blogs on Monday to catch weekday readers
