Is Python Still Worth Learning?
s Python worth learning in 2022? This is a valid question, and we’ll answer it in this article. Let's start with some important data.
According to the latest STACK OVERFLOW SURVEY, Python ranks high among the most popular technologies. It is also high up among the loved and highest among the wanted technologies. The IEEE SPECTRUM RANKING also points to Python as the most popular language in 2022.
Why Python Is the Most Popular Programming Language?
Python has been around for a while, and its popularity has only increased over time. It’s become the most popular programming language in the past few years. This is due to many reasons, such as its simplicity, ease of learning, intuitive syntax, and gigantic community.
Also contributing to Python’s popularity is its many uses; you’ll find it in data science, web development, robotics, IoT, autonomous driving, cloud computing, scientific computing, artificial intelligence, and more. This language is used by some of THE BIGGEST COMPANIES IN THE WORLD, such as Google, Instagram, Netflix, and Quora. This means that there is a huge (and increasing) demand for Python developers.
Now that you have a better idea of what makes Python the most popular programming language, let me explain why you should learn Python in 2022.
Why You Should Learn Python in 2022
In a nutshell, there are two main reasons to learn Python in 2022. First, it is an incredible skill to have in your programmer’s toolbox. Second, it can lead you to a more rewarding lifestyle, financially and in terms of quality of life.
Python is used by many companies because it makes development faster and easier. It is also widely used in research, and its many packages are developed and maintained by a vast community.
Python also makes prototyping and experimenting easier. Thanks to its straightforward syntax, it allows you to focus more on programming itself than the language. It also spares you the compiling nightmares you may encounter with other programming languages. Python is an excellent choice if you have a side project or idea that you quickly want to experiment with.
Python programming is also a great option for remote work. If you want to save the time and energy you spend on your commute, Python can lead you to FULL-TIME REMOTE WORK or FREELANCING from almost anywhere in the world.
And even if you do not want to program professionally, learning Python can help you IMPROVE YOUR OVERALL PRODUCTIVITY. Many repetitive tasks can be automated with Python, which will save you time and let you focus on the more interesting aspects of your work.
A No-Risk Way to Start Learning Python
At this point, I hope you’re at least a little curious about learning Python. But maybe you don’t want to invest a lot in it just yet. So how can you find out if PYTHON PROGRAMMING IS FOR YOU?
At the time of writing this article, our PYTHON BASICS: PART 1 interactive course is completely free. In it, you’ll find 95 exercises that will take about 10 hours to complete.
By the end of this course, you’ll know how to create your first Python application, use variables and math in Python, make decisions with conditional statements, repeat code using loops, and write reusable functions.
If you decide you want to go further with Python, our LEARN PROGRAMMING WITH PYTHON track is for you. It’s a bundle of 5 interactive courses that takes about 38 hours to complete. It’s designed for beginners, so you don’t need any prior coding experience. (In fact, Python Basics: Part 1 is the first course in the track.) You only need a web browser and an internet connection.
Our free PYTHON BASICS: PART 1 course is a great way to discover if learning Python programming is for you. All you need is a free account on LEARNPYTHON.COM, so log in now and start learning!

