From its beginnings in the software community, open source now means different things to different people, depending on the experience and interactions they have had. From covering code ownership, licensing and development, it has become more important for technology projects. However, one thing it is not is a business model.

When companies open source their code, they still need to generate revenues to run successful businesses. However, they cannot charge royalties in the same way that other software companies might do. Instead, we see the rise of new business models accompanying this zero cost licensing, which allow generation of revenue alongside giving away code. For many years, this would rely on support and subscription models, but today this can include offering cloud services that make it easy to use the service.

However, what is to stop other companies doing exactly the same thing without contributing back to those projects? This can eat into the revenue opportunities that these companies have, as well as affecting the community around the project. Whilst the software itself may come without a direct cost to customers, maintaining the code and making it secure clearly has an ongoing cost for those involved. To date, this has been paid by the community of volunteers or businesses that have chosen to develop and maintain the code. However, with so much of our infrastructure and digital services today depending on those open source code projects, there is now a more compelling argument that Governments and public sector organisations now need to actively contribute to and support the open source model too.

Open source needs to be considered as a public good bringing huge societal benefits in the same way that real world infrastructure like roads. It can no longer simply be considered within the Commons. It must be funded by Governments at scale globally.

In the UK, the Energy Digitalisation Task Force launched its recommendations in January 2022 around how the utility sector will have to evolve in order to meet its goals around providing energy and achieving net zero. In the report, it stated that the most effective way to build this would be to use open source and open standards, as this removes lock in and promotes interoperability.  The report also called for strong governance and collaboration structures to be in place, as with all critical infrastructure.
