Game engines are reusable components developers use to build the framework of the game. Engines provide a rendering engine for 2D or 3D graphics, a physics engine or collision detection, sound, scripting, animation, artificial intelligence, networking, streaming, memory management, threading, localization support, scene graph and may offer application programming interfaces (APIs) for other software engineers. Some of the most popular game engines are Unreal Engine 4 by Epic Games and Unity3D by Unity Technologies.

C#, a powerful object-oriented programming language was designed to be a balance between C++ and Java. C#, often used for game development because of multiple platform support, (Windows, OS X, and Linux), makes it easier to use for game development. C# make it easier to work in groups as they allow multiple developers working on the same project or team to share code easily between each other. This makes it easy to use existing libraries and frameworks written in those languages.

Game Development libraries like OpenRA, MonoGame, Entitas-CSharp and GameFrameWork are used in this kit. OpenRA is a cross-platform real-time strategy game engine that allows players to play mods for games such as Command & Conquer. MonoGame is a cross-platform development framework which allows you to write games for Windows, MacOS or Linux using C#. MonoGame provides support for 2D games and a subset of 3D functionality needed for some types of games. C# libraries can help you get started with game development quickly by providing ready-made toolsets that are already built into a common framework.

There are also many other open-source game engines that can be used freely by anyone to develop both commercial and non-commercial games. You can also use industry-standard C# libraries to build your own game from scratch like MonoGame - One framework for creating powerful cross platform games; stride - Stride Game Engine; UnrealCLR - Unreal Engine .NET 5 integration.

MonoGame is a cross-platform implementation of Microsoft's XNA. It allows you to make games in C# and run them on Windows, macOS, iOS, Android, and Linux. You can also use the same codebase to target Xbox One, PlayStation 4, and Nintendo Switch. OpenRA is an open-source project that recreates the classic Command & Conquer titles in the Unity game engine. It's designed for multiplayer games like Red Alert 2 and Tiberian Dawn but also comes with single-player missions for all three games. The ET engine is a powerful real-time strategy engine that uses Lua for scripting. It was originally created for the open-source game Eternal Lands but has since been used by many other projects, including OpenRA.
